# New York City guidelines

Hack and Tell NYC is pretty simple and it works well. Here are some major
points:

0. We don't have a permanent home, so we give up 2 minutes for pizza/food and
space. This is the only time ever that recruiting can be mentioned, though
we've found that many times our sponsors don't say anything about hiring to
keep with the spirit. It's sort of implied in NYC.

1. 5 minutes/ 5 minutes. Demo followed by discussion. We use
http://hackandtell.org/timer -- a quick little lighting talk timer that claps
at the end and stick by it. Don't let people go over -- even in mid thought. 

2.  We discourage slides, but sometimes the "hacks" aren't finished or aren't
very demoable. In the case that the hack isn't finished, the presenter should
be seeking guidance or some sort of help.

3. Braindump. In solidarity with another dying meetup that some of us liked to
attempt, we now try to get one person to talk about some concept, or present a
paper, or some sort of story. We call this a braindump. Slides are OK, 5/5 rule
still applies--very fun.

4. Absolutely no startup pitches. We do two things. We seek presenters ahead of
time, check them out and ask clarifying questions. Sometimes people get past
us, which sucks. No work related projects. The whole idea from the get go was
to be proud of side projects to encourage more people to do so. Countless
people come up to me afterwards and say, "I need to find time for some side
projects." It's very gratifying in that way.

5. We usually pick 8 or 9 projects. It gets to be too much after that.

6. Do yourself a favor and use Meetup (or something like it). I'm not saying
this because I used to work there. I'm saying it because it Meetup makes it
trivial to do a lot of the things that would be annoying and very time
consuming to do otherwise.

7. Be friendly and inviting to newbies and those just learning, but it's OK to
hassle recruiters and people who don't belong. Hackers come first.

I tried to do this thing a while ago where I interviewed people who run
successful tech groups. The results are here: <http://congregating.us> -- might
be helpful if you're new to the organizational side of things
